# scallop
Command-line image scaler, using modified scale2x

## What is it?

This tool scales pixel art images and keeps their existing palettes. It respects transparency, and won't add partial
transparency to an image. It can also scale libGDX .atlas files (which should have images that also need scaling) and
AngelCode BMFont .fnt files (which libGDX uses). This means if a font is inside an atlas texture page, you can resize
all three of the atlas, its image(s), and the font at once.

See [DawnLikeAtlas](https://github.com/tommyettinger/DawnLikeAtlas/tree/master/thirteen) for an example of what this can
do; the atlases there were scaled by an earlier version of this tool.

## Usage (Windows)

First, downloads are in the Releases section here on GitHub. Download a recent release as a .zip (not the sources .zip,
though), and extract the two files from it.

Drag and drop images (.png, .jpg, and .jpeg supported), libGDX .atlas files (the current format definitely works, and
the "legacy" format might work), and AngelCode BMFont .fnt files (often generated by other tools, like Hiero or Skin
Composer) onto Scallop.bat , and resized versions will be produced next to the source files. You can also follow the
"any platform" instructions below. The resized images will have x1, x2, x3, x4, x6, and x8 scale.

## Usage (Any Platform)

Like above, downloads are in Releases, but you only need to extract the Scallop.jar file from the .zip.

From the command line, run `java -jar Scallop.jar input1 input2...`, where:
  - Scallop.jar is in the current directory.
    - Use `cd` to get to the directory where Scallop.jar is; if you don't know how, then there are probably
      some good command-line tutorials out there, I just don't know where.
  - Java must be at least version 8 (which should be the oldest version you can easily get these days, and any newer
      version will work as well).
  - The input or inputs can be .png, .jpg, .jpeg, libGDX .atlas, and/or AngelCode BMFont .fnt files.
    - At least one input is required, but there is no upper limit.
    - You can mix .atlas, .fnt, and image files in one command.
  - You can specify a limited palette for the scaled images if you want with this method.
    - After all filename arguments, you can define a palette by listing colors Scallop is allowed to use with
      the syntax `-RRGGBB -RRGGBB -RRGGBB ...` where RRGGBB is a hex color (you can use RRGGBBAA but the AA is ignored).
    - For example, to make a grayscale image with four shades of gray, use `-000000 -666666 -BBBBBB -FFFFFF` .
    - The fully-transparent color will always be present in the palette, without needing to specify it.
    - The limited palette will be reduced using [anim8-gdx](https://github.com/tommyettinger/anim8-gdx), using "Woven"
      dither (currently) and a low dither strength.

The resized images will have x1, x2, x3, x4, x6, and x8 scale.

## License

Apache 2, see [LICENSE](LICENSE) in this folder.

This uses Dawnlike in its test assets, though they aren't distributed in releases.
[Dawnlike was originally posted on OpenGameArt](https://opengameart.org/comment/60159).
It's CC-BY 4.0 licensed, requiring attribution to DawnBringer **if and only if you use the
Dawnlike artwork in your own project**. DawnBringer made the 16-color palette
DawnLike uses, and DragonDePlatino specifically requires DawnBringer to receive credit. It's
probably best to credit DragonDePlatino too, if you use Dawnlike.